I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the
others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so
good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving _her_ the preference.

Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike; he had a pleasant
countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. His sisters were fine women,
with an air of decided fashion. His brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely
looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention
of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and
the report which was in general circulation within five minutes
after his entrance, of his having ten thousand a year. The gentlemen
pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man, the ladies declared he
was much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great
admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust
which turned the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be
proud; to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all
his large estate in Derbyshire could then save him from having a most
forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared
with his friend.

Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal
people in the room; he was lively and unreserved, danced every dance,
was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving
one himself at Netherfield. Such amiable qualities must speak for
themselves. What a contrast between him and his friend! Mr. Darcy danced
only once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being
introduced to any other lady, and spent the rest of the evening in
walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party.
His character was decided. He was the proudest, most disagreeable man
in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there again.
Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. Bennet, whose dislike of
his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his
having slighted one of her daughters.

I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am
particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this
it would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not
another woman in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me to
stand up with.

It may seem to those who know Sir Charles incredible, but, I am
bound to admit, my brother-in-law coloured. What that letter
contained I cannot say; he only answered, very testily and
evasively, "No, thank you; I won't trouble you. The exhibition you
have already given us of your skill in this kind more than amply
suffices." And his fingers strayed nervously to his waistcoat
pocket, as if he was half afraid, even then, Señor Herrera would
read it.

The Seer bowed courteously. "Your will, señor, is law," he said. "I
make it a principle, though I can see through all things, invariably
to respect the secrecies and sanctities. If it were not so, I might
dissolve society. For which of us is there who could bear the whole
truth being told about him?" He gazed around the room. An unpleasant
thrill supervened. Most of us felt this uncanny Spanish American
knew really too much. And some of us were engaged in financial
operations.

"I want you to put the card in an envelope," the Seer replied, "and
then to burn it. After that, I shall show you your own name written
in letters of blood on my arm, in your own handwriting."

"I see how that's done," Sir Charles murmured, drawing back. "It's
a clever delusion; but still, I see through it. It's like that
ghost-book. Your ink was deep green; your light was green; you made
me look at it long; and then I saw the same thing written on the
skin of your arm in complementary colours."

"It is," he said. "I admit it--I can't deny it. Only fancy his
bamboozling me when I was most on my guard! I wasn't to be taken
in by any of his silly occult tricks and catch-words; but it never
occurred to me he was going to victimise me financially in this
way. I expected attempts at a loan or an extortion; but to collar
my signature to a blank cheque--atrocious!"

Natural philosophy is the genius that has regulated my fate; I desire,
therefore, in this narration, to state those facts which led to my
predilection for that science. When I was thirteen years of age we all went
on a party of pleasure to the baths near Thonon; the inclemency of the
weather obliged us to remain a day confined to the inn. In this house I
chanced to find a volume of the works of Cornelius Agrippa. I opened it
with apathy; the theory which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful
facts which he relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm. A new
light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, I communicated my
discovery to my father. My father looked carelessly at the title page of my
book and said, Ah! Cornelius Agrippa! My dear Victor, do not waste
your time upon this; it is sad trash.

Of all paradoxes man is the cleverest and most untiring. He says he is
a worm of the earth, but believes himself to be a son of God; his own
person he clothes modestly, but revels in discovering the nakedness
of the greatest possible number of his sisters in Christ. The more
he humiliates himself, the prouder he is; the more he vaunts his
generosity, so much the more is he egotistical; an adorer of liberty
in theory, but in practice a daily contriver of tyrannies.

Well, I know. It's jam--that's what it is. Forty times I've said if you
didn't let that jam alone I'd skin you. Hand me that switch.

Bother! Well, go 'long with you. I'd made sure you'd played hookey
and been a-swimming. But I forgive ye, Tom. I reckon you're a kind of a
singed cat, as the saying is--better'n you look. _This_ time.

Her shrieks were of no avail. Cut succeeded cut, yell succeeded
yelluntil the rod was worn to a stump, and poor Marys bottom was one
mass of weals and red as raw beef. It was fearful to see, and yet such
is our nature that to see it was, at the same time, exciting. I could
not keep my eyes from her pouting quim, the swelling lips of which,
under the severity of the punishment it was undergoing, not only seemed
to thicken, but actually opened and shut, and evidently throbbed with
agony. But all this was highly exciting for me to witness. I then and
there resolved to have a closer inspection at a more convenient
opportunity, which did not fail me in the end.

He belongs to the horse-riding, if you please, sir.

Mr. Gradgrind frowned, and waved off the objectionable calling with his
hand.

Of course no, said the gentleman, with an indignant look at the wrong
half.  Why, then, you are not to see anywhere, what you dont see in
fact; you are not to have anywhere, what you dont have in fact.  What is
called Taste, is only another name for Fact.  Thomas Gradgrind nodded
his approbation.

So you would carpet your roomor your husbands room, if you were a
grown woman, and had a husbandwith representations of flowers, would
you? said the gentleman.  Why would you?

If you please, sir, I am very fond of flowers, returned the girl.

And is that why you would put tables and chairs upon them, and have
people walking over them with heavy boots?

It wouldnt hurt them, sir.  They wouldnt crush and wither, if you
please, sir.  They would be the pictures of what was very pretty and
pleasant, and I would fancy

Ay, ay, ay!  But you mustnt fancy, cried the gentleman, quite elated
by coming so happily to his point.  Thats it!  You are never to fancy.

You are not, Cecilia Jupe, Thomas Gradgrind solemnly repeated, to do
anything of that kind.

Fact, fact, fact! said the gentleman.  And Fact, fact, fact! repeated
Thomas Gradgrind.

There were five young Gradgrinds, and they were models every one.  They
had been lectured at, from their tenderest years; coursed, like little
hares.  Almost as soon as they could run alone, they had been made to run
to the lecture-room.  The first object with which they had an
association, or of which they had a remembrance, was a large black board
with a dry Ogre chalking ghastly white figures on it.

My mother left me to my grandmother, said Bounderby; and, according to
the best of my remembrance, my grandmother was the wickedest and the
worst old woman that ever lived.  If I got a little pair of shoes by any
chance, she would take em off and sell em for drink.  Why, I have known
that grandmother of mine lie in her bed and drink her four-teen glasses
of liquor before breakfast!

Bounderby, said Mr. Gradgrind, drawing a chair to the fireside, you
are always so interested in my young peopleparticularly in Louisathat I
make no apology for saying to you, I am very much vexed by this
discovery.  I have systematically devoted myself (as you know) to the
education of the reason of my family.  The reason is (as you know) the
only faculty to which education should be addressed.  And yet,
Bounderby, it would appear from this unexpected circumstance of to-day,
though in itself a trifling one, as if something had crept into Thomass
and Louisas minds which isor rather, which is notI dont know that I
can express myself better than by sayingwhich has never been intended to
be developed, and in which their reason has no part.

Whether, said Gradgrind, pondering with his hands in his pockets, and
his cavernous eyes on the fire, whether any instructor or servant can
have suggested anything?  Whether Louisa or Thomas can have been reading
anything?  Whether, in spite of all precautions, any idle story-book can
have got into the house?  Because, in minds that have been practically
formed by rule and line, from the cradle upwards, this is so curious, so
incomprehensible.


Tags used;
1) Global Region : Europe
2) Program Owner : HIS-Nathalie Viallix
3) SBU : Honeywell Industrial Safety
4) SBX : General Safety
5) Period Cost : $1
Yes Tokens are populated
