At the end of that time our fortnightly pass-book came in from
the bank in London. It is part of my duty, as the millionaire's
secretary, to make up this book once a fortnight, and to compare
the cancelled cheques with Sir Charles's counterfoils. On this
particular occasion I happened to observe what I can only describe
as a very grave discrepancy,--in fact, a discrepancy of 5000 pounds.
On the wrong side, too. Sir Charles was debited with 5000 pounds
more than the total amount that was shown on the counterfoils.

We telegraphed to London, of course, and we wrote to the bank, with
a full description of the suspected person. But I need hardly add
that nothing came of it.

As the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character, I cannot
refrain from relating them.  One of his most intimate friends was a
merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous
mischances, into poverty.  This man, whose name was Beaufort, was of a
proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in poverty
and oblivion in the same country where he had formerly been
distinguished for his rank and magnificence.  Having paid his debts,
therefore, in the most honourable manner, he retreated with his
daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in
wretchedness.  My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and
was deeply grieved by his retreat in these unfortunate circumstances.
He bitterly deplored the false pride which led his friend to a conduct
so little worthy of the affection that united them.  He lost no time in
endeavouring to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin
the world again through his credit and assistance.

Beaufort had taken effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten
months before my father discovered his abode. Overjoyed at this discovery,
he hastened to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the
Reuss. But when he entered, misery and despair alone welcomed him. Beaufort
had saved but a very small sum of money from the wreck of his fortunes, but
it was sufficient to provide him with sustenance for some months, and in
the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable employment in a
merchants house. The interval was, consequently, spent in inaction;
his grief only became more deep and rankling when he had leisure for
reflection, and at length it took so fast hold of his mind that at the end
of three months he lay on a bed of sickness, incapable of any exertion.

His daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness, but she saw
with despair that their little fund was rapidly decreasing and that
there was no other prospect of support.  But Caroline Beaufort
possessed a mind of an uncommon mould, and her courage rose to support
her in her adversity.  She procured plain work; she plaited straw and
by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to
support life.

Several months passed in this manner.  Her father grew worse; her time
was more entirely occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence
decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving
her an orphan and a beggar.  This last blow overcame her, and she knelt
by Beauforts coffin weeping bitterly, when my father entered the
chamber.  He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who
committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he
conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a
relation.  Two years after this event Caroline became his wife.

The peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and
admiration on this lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history. She was
not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman. Her mother was a
German and had died on giving her birth. The infant had been placed with
these good people to nurse: they were better off then. They had not been
long married, and their eldest child was but just born. The father of their
charge was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique glory
of Italyone among the _schiavi ognor frementi,_ who exerted
himself to obtain the liberty of his country. He became the victim of its
weakness. Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria
was not known. His property was confiscated; his child became an orphan and
a beggar. She continued with her foster parents and bloomed in their rude
abode, fairer than a garden rose among dark-leaved brambles.

Hang the boy, can't I never learn anything? Ain't he played me tricks
enough like that for me to be looking out for him by this time? But old
fools is the biggest fools there is. Can't learn an old dog new tricks,
as the saying is. But my goodness, he never plays them alike, two days,
and how is a body to know what's coming? He 'pears to know just how long
he can torment me before I get my dander up, and he knows if he can make
out to put me off for a minute or make me laugh, it's all down again and
I can't hit him a lick. I ain't doing my duty by that boy, and that's
the Lord's truth, goodness knows. Spare the rod and spile the child,
as the Good Book says. I'm a laying up sin and suffering for us both,
I know. He's full of the Old Scratch, but laws-a-me! he's my own
dead sister's boy, poor thing, and I ain't got the heart to lash him,
somehow. Every time I let him off, my conscience does hurt me so, and
every time I hit him my old heart most breaks. Well-a-well, man that is
born of woman is of few days and full of trouble, as the Scripture
says, and I reckon it's so. He'll play hookey this evening, * and [*
Southwestern for afternoon] I'll just be obleeged to make him work,
tomorrow, to punish him. It's mighty hard to make him work Saturdays,
when all the boys is having holiday, but he hates work more than he
hates anything else, and I've _got_ to do some of my duty by him, or
I'll be the ruination of the child.

He got home pretty late that night, and when he climbed cautiously in
at the window, he uncovered an ambuscade, in the person of his aunt; and
when she saw the state his clothes were in her resolution to turn his
Saturday holiday into captivity at hard labor became adamantine in its
firmness.

No little Gradgrind had ever seen a face in the moon; it was up in the
moon before it could speak distinctly.  No little Gradgrind had ever
learnt the silly jingle, Twinkle, twinkle, little star; how I wonder what
you are!  No little Gradgrind had ever known wonder on the subject, each
little Gradgrind having at five years old dissected the Great Bear like a
Professor Owen, and driven Charless Wain like a locomotive
engine-driver.  No little Gradgrind had ever associated a cow in a field
with that famous cow with the crumpled horn who tossed the dog who
worried the cat who killed the rat who ate the malt, or with that yet
more famous cow who swallowed Tom Thumb: it had never heard of those
celebrities, and had only been introduced to a cow as a graminivorous
ruminating quadruped with several stomachs.

Both rose, red and disconcerted.  But, Louisa looked at her father with
more boldness than Thomas did.  Indeed, Thomas did not look at him, but
gave himself up to be taken home like a machine.

Thomas, though I have the fact before me, I find it difficult to believe
that you, with your education and resources, should have brought your
sister to a scene like this.

I brought _him_, father, said Louisa, quickly.  I asked him to come.

I am sorry to hear it.  I am very sorry indeed to hear it.  It makes
Thomas no better, and it makes you worse, Louisa.

She looked at her father again, but no tear fell down her cheek.

You!  Thomas and you, to whom the circle of the sciences is open; Thomas
and you, who may be said to be replete with facts; Thomas and you, who
have been trained to mathematical exactness; Thomas and you, here! cried
Mr. Gradgrind.  In this degraded position!  I am amazed.

I was tired, father.  I have been tired a long time, said Louisa.

Tired?  Of what? asked the astonished father.

I dont know of whatof everything, I think.

I hadnt a shoe to my foot.  As to a stocking, I didnt know such a
thing by name.  I passed the day in a ditch, and the night in a pigsty.
Thats the way I spent my tenth birthday.  Not that a ditch was new to
me, for I was born in a ditch.

Cold?  I was born with inflammation of the lungs, and of everything
else, I believe, that was capable of inflammation, returned Mr.
Bounderby.  For years, maam, I was one of the most miserable little
wretches ever seen.  I was so sickly, that I was always moaning and
groaning.  I was so ragged and dirty, that you wouldnt have touched me
with a pair of tongs.

She kept a chandlers shop, pursued Bounderby, and kept me in an
egg-box.  That was the cot of _my_ infancy; an old egg-box.  As soon as I
was big enough to run away, of course I ran away.  Then I became a young
vagabond; and instead of one old woman knocking me about and starving me,
everybody of all ages knocked me about and starved me.  They were right;
they had no business to do anything else.  I was a nuisance, an
incumbrance, and a pest.  I know that very well.

I was to pull through it, I suppose, Mrs. Gradgrind.  Whether I was to
do it or not, maam, I did it.  I pulled through it, though nobody threw
me out a rope.  Vagabond, errand-boy, vagabond, labourer, porter, clerk,
chief manager, small partner, Josiah Bounderby of Coketown.  Those are
the antecedents, and the culmination.  Josiah Bounderby of Coketown
learnt his letters from the outsides of the shops, Mrs. Gradgrind, and
was first able to tell the time upon a dial-plate, from studying the
steeple clock of St. Giless Church, London, under the direction of a
drunken cripple, who was a convicted thief, and an incorrigible vagrant.
Tell Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, of your district schools and your
model schools, and your training schools, and your whole kettle-of-fish
of schools; and Josiah Bounderby of Coketown, tells you plainly, all
right, all correcthe hadnt such advantagesbut let us have hard-headed,
solid-fisted peoplethe education that made him wont do for everybody,
he knows wellsuch and such his education was, however, and you may force
him to swallow boiling fat, but you shall never force him to suppress the
facts of his life.

The author gives some account of himself and family.  His first
inducements to travel.  He is shipwrecked, and swims for his life.  Gets
safe on shore in the country of Lilliput; is made a prisoner, and carried
up the country.

It would not be proper, for some reasons, to trouble the reader with the
particulars of our adventures in those seas; let it suffice to inform
him, that in our passage from thence to the East Indies, we were driven
by a violent storm to the north-west of Van Diemens Land.  By an
observation, we found ourselves in the latitude of 30 degrees 2 minutes
south.  Twelve of our crew were dead by immoderate labour and ill food;
the rest were in a very weak condition. 

 On the 5th of November, which
was the beginning of summer in those parts, the weather being very hazy,
the seamen spied a rock within half a cables length of the ship; but the
wind was so strong, that we were driven directly upon it, and immediately
split.  Six of the crew, of whom I was one, having let down the boat into
the sea, made a shift to get clear of the ship and the rock.  We rowed,
by my computation, about three leagues, till we were able to work no
longer, being already spent with labour while we were in the ship.  We
therefore trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves, and in about half
an hour the boat was overset by a sudden flurry from the north.  What
became of my companions in the boat, as well as of those who escaped on
the rock, or were left in the vessel, I cannot tell; but conclude they
were all lost.

In a small village, a little boy lived with his father and mother. He was the only son.
The parents of the little boy were very depressed due to his bad temper. 
The boy used to get angry very soon and taunt others with his words. His bad temper made him use words that hurt others. 
He scolded kids, neighbours and even his friends due to anger. 
His friends and neighbours avoided him, and his parents were really worried about him.
His mother and father advised him many times to control his anger and develop kindness.
Unfortunately, all their attempts failed.


He told the boy, The nails were your bad temper and they were hammered on people. 
You can remove the nails but the holes in the fence will remain. 
The fence will never look the same. It has scars all over. Some nails cannot even be pulled out. 
You can stab a man with a knife, and say sorry later, but the wound will remain there forever.
Your bad temper and angry words were like that! Words are more painful than physical abuse! Use words for good purposes. 
Use them to grow relationships. Use them to show the love and kindness in your heart!


However, Rajs father could not earn sufficient money to provide a decent life to his family.
Raj was an average student in school, and used to score around 70 percent marks. Rajs dream was to become a doctor. 
Since his marks werent very high, he could not get the desired course that he wanted to study. 
Instead, he joined a bachelors degree course, completed the course successfully, and got a job in a company.


It so happened that Rajs father fell sick, and as a result, could not continue his work in the welding shop. 
He requested Raj to give some money for his treatment and other household expenses.
Raj, who was already suffering from financial crisis, shouted at his parents and told them that he had no money to provide.
He complained to his parents, You never sent me to a big school. I was not provided with expensive clothes. 
You rarely fed me with my favorite food. I was not able to taste different varieties of food. 
When I got low marks you didnt have enough money to provide me with private tuition, 
and it took me more than 10 years to get settled. 
Now, while I am again struggling for money, you are not doing anything to help me, but instead are a burden to me! 
So, please dont come to me again.
His parents were left shattered.

One hot day, a thirsty crow flew all over the fields looking for water. 
For a long time, she could not find any. She felt very weak, almost giving up hope.
The crow tried to push her head into the jug. Sadly, she found that the neck of the jug was too narrow. 
Then she tried to push the jug down for the water to flow out. She found that the jug was too heavy.


Once upon a time, there lived a very cunning and mischievous fox. 
He used to speak to other animals sweetly and gain their trust, before playing tricks on them.
The day of the feast came, and the stork went to the foxs house. To her surprise and disappointment, 
the fox said that he could not make a big feast as promised, and just offered some soup. 
When he brought the soup out of the kitchen, the stork saw that it was in a shallow bowl!
The poor stork could not have any soup with its long bill, but the fox easily licked the soup from the plate. 
As the stork just touched the soup with the tip of its bill.


Sam was a greedy and selfish man. He always desired to have lots and lots of money and never 
hesitated to cheat others to make money. 
Also, he never wished to share anything with others. He paid very low wages to his servants.



After a couple of days, the ten year old daughter of a man working for Sam found the bag. She told her father about it. 
Her father identified the bag as the one that was missing, and immediately decided to take it to his master.
He gave the bag back to his master Sam, and asked him to check whether the bag had 50 gold coins. 
Sam was exultant to get the coins back, but he decided to play a trick. He shouted at his worker, 
there were 75 gold coins in this bag but you gave me only 50! Where are the other coins? You have stolen them!
The worker was shocked to hear this and pleaded his innocence. Selfish and greedy, 
Sam did not accept the workers story, and decided to take the issue to court.

One day, they decided to go on a sea voyage to explore strange lands. 
They began their voyage in a cruise ship, and travelled far and wide. 
However, in the course of their trip, the weather turned very destructive. 
The ship was wrecked in the middle of the ocean. 
Most of the passengers were killed, but Kim and Ray could swim to a nearby island.
